{:title "A Post"
 :layout :post
 :date "2016-01-01"
 :executable true
 :tags  ["kitty" "meow" "not fetch"]}

# An

## Experiment

### Like Woah. 

<code class="clojure">
((comp (partial apply +) (partial map (partial * 3))) [1 2 3])
</code>

Let's see what happens if I use a language that isn't supported by klipse, like haskell! 

```
plength :: [a] -> Int
plength [] = 0
plength (x:xs) = 1 + plength xs
```

it's really bad at identifying haskell.

```
sum . map (*3) $ [1, 2, 3]
```

I wonder if I can use python? 

```
import foo
print "meow"

for x in y:
    print x
```

hmm, I'd need to give it another class or something here.  This might well just require writing javascript to sweep through it.  

my slack posts:

> has anyone out there figured out how to automatically klipse-ify code blocks in posts generated by cryogen?  I'm thinking that probably the easiest thing to do would be to just stick in some javascript at the end to automatically add klipse classes to all code blocks, but if there's a more straightforward way I'd love to hear it...

> oooh, actually, it looks like highlight.js automatically adds classes like "hljs clojure" to code blocks, so it might be as easy as just configuring klipse to look for that.

> (although with multiple languages, I'm not sure that would work. does klipse_settings.selector take an array of css selectors?

> interesting.  using class selectors doesn't seem to work, but selecting code elements does...

Let's try another python one.

<code class="python">print [x.upper() for x in ["foo", "bar"]]
</code>

> ok, the solution is apparently to just put straight html in the markdown and give it a code tag with a klipse class, rather than using the markdown triple-backquote syntax

Now really all I need to add is the live-code tag that puts this stuff in only when I need it.  

Actually, I should have a live-clojure, live-python, etc., to minimize loading. 
